<!-- @generated by usage-cli from usage spec -->
# `mise run`

- **Usage**: `mise run [FLAGS]`
- **Aliases**: `r`
- **Source code**: [`src/cli/run.rs`](https://github.com/jdx/mise/blob/main/src/cli/run.rs)

Run task(s)

This command will run a tasks, or multiple tasks in parallel.
Tasks may have dependencies on other tasks or on source files.
If source is configured on a tasks, it will only run if the source
files have changed.

Tasks can be defined in mise.toml or as standalone scripts.
In mise.toml, tasks take this form:

```
[tasks.build]
run = "npm run build"
sources = ["src/**/*.ts"]
outputs = ["dist/**/*.js"]
```

Alternatively, tasks can be defined as standalone scripts.
These must be located in `mise-tasks`, `.mise-tasks`, `.mise/tasks`, `mise/tasks` or
`.config/mise/tasks`.
The name of the script will be the name of the tasks.

```
$ cat .mise/tasks/build&lt;&lt;EOF
#!/usr/bin/env bash
npm run build
EOF
$ mise run build
```

## Flags

### `--no-cache`

Do not use cache on remote tasks

### `-C --cd <CD>`

Change to this directory before executing the command

### `-c --continue-on-error`

Continue running tasks even if one fails

### `-n --dry-run`

Don't actually run the tasks(s), just print them in order of execution

### `-f --force`

Force the tasks to run even if outputs are up to date

### `-s --shell <SHELL>`

Shell to use to run toml tasks

Defaults to `sh -c -o errexit -o pipefail` on unix, and `cmd /c` on Windows
Can also be set with the setting `MISE_UNIX_DEFAULT_INLINE_SHELL_ARGS` or `MISE_WINDOWS_DEFAULT_INLINE_SHELL_ARGS`
Or it can be overridden with the `shell` property on a task.

### `-t --tool… <TOOL@VERSION>`

Tool(s) to run in addition to what is in mise.toml files e.g.: node@20 python@3.10

### `-j --jobs <JOBS>`

Number of tasks to run in parallel
[default: 4]
Configure with `jobs` config or `MISE_JOBS` env var

### `-r --raw`

Read/write directly to stdin/stdout/stderr instead of by line
Redactions are not applied with this option
Configure with `raw` config or `MISE_RAW` env var

### `-S --silent`

Don't show any output except for errors

### `--timeout <TIMEOUT>`

Timeout for the task to complete
e.g.: 30s, 5m

### `--no-timings`

Hides elapsed time after each task completes

Default to always hide with `MISE_TASK_TIMINGS=0`

### `-q --quiet`

Don't show extra output

### `-o --output <OUTPUT>`

Change how tasks information is output when running tasks

- `prefix` - Print stdout/stderr by line, prefixed with the task's label
- `interleave` - Print directly to stdout/stderr instead of by line
- `replacing` - Stdout is replaced each time, stderr is printed as is
- `timed` - Only show stdout lines if they are displayed for more than 1 second
- `keep-order` - Print stdout/stderr by line, prefixed with the task's label, but keep the order of the output
- `quiet` - Don't show extra output
- `silent` - Don't show any output including stdout and stderr from the task except for errors

Examples:

```
# Runs the "lint" tasks. This needs to either be defined in mise.toml
# or as a standalone script. See the project README for more information.
$ mise run lint

# Forces the "build" tasks to run even if its sources are up-to-date.
$ mise run build --force

# Run "test" with stdin/stdout/stderr all connected to the current terminal.
# This forces `--jobs=1` to prevent interleaving of output.
$ mise run test --raw

# Runs the "lint", "test", and "check" tasks in parallel.
$ mise run lint ::: test ::: check

# Execute multiple tasks each with their own arguments.
$ mise tasks cmd1 arg1 arg2 ::: cmd2 arg1 arg2
```
